# UNIX Processes problems

1. Write 2 C programs, A and B. Program A will read from the keyboard a file name. Program A will read from the file and write in fifo all the digits from the file. Program B will create 2 processes P1 and P2. P1 will read the digits from the fifo previously mentioned and will calculate their sum, then will send the sum via pipe to P2, which will display the divisors of the sum. The name of the fifo will be given as argument in the command line in both of the programs. Program A will create the fifo and program B will delete the fifo. Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.

2. Write 2 C programs, A and B. Program A will read two integers from the keyboard and will write in a fifo the least common multiple of them. Program B will create 2 processes P1 and P2, P1 will read the multiple from the previously mentioned fifo and will compute its divisors. The divisors will be passed through a pipe to the P2 process which will display them on screen. The name of the fifo will be given as argument in the command line in both of the programs. Program A will create the fifo and program B will delete the fifo. Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.

3. Write 2 C programs, A and B. A will create 2 processes P1 and P2. P1 will take from the command line the name of a file containing only numbers, then it will read from the standard input (keyboard) a number n. P1 will send the first n numbers from the file to P2 via pipe. P2 will send the sum of all the odd numbers received to B, via fifo. B will display on the standard output (the console) the number received. Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.

4. Write 2 C programs, A and B. A will create 2 processes P1 and P2. P1 will take from the command line the name of a file containing random text, then it will read from the standard input (keyboard) a number n. P1 will send the nth character from the file to P2 via pipe. P2 will write on the standard output (the console) the nature of that character (letter, digit, other) and will send it to B via fifo. B will display on the standard output the ascii code of that character. Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.

5. Write 2 C programs, A and B. Program A will read an integer from the keyboard and will write in a fifo all the divisors of the read number. Program
B will create 2 processes P1 and P2, P1 will read the divisors from the fifo mentioned previously and will calculate their sum. The sum will be transmitted through a pipe to process P2 which will display it on the screen. The name of the fifo will be given as argument in the command line in both of the programs. Program A will create the fifo and program B will delete the fifo. Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.

6. Write 2 C programs, A and B. A will create 2 prcesses P1 and P2. P1 will read from the standard input (keyboard) the path to a file f, f can have any number of characters any number of times. P1 will send to P2, via pipe, the path. P2 will send to B, via fifo, 5 numbers, each representing the frequency of a large vowel (A,E,I,O,U) found in the file. B will display the numbers on the standard output (the console). Both programs should be compiled with gcc -Wall -g without errors or warnings. Both programs must run without memory leaks, context errors or zombie processes.
